A side effect is any effect of running
a function that is not part of the return statement.
You'll see what I mean in this example.
In this program, I have an object called galaxy_ship and
a function called stock_arsenal that will update my torpedo_balance.
When I call stock_arsenal,
I can call the number of torpedoes that I
want and the ID of the ship I want to run it on.
Which all of this looks fantastic except for this line right here.
You can see that I'm actually updating galaxy_ship in the middle of my function.
This is a side effect.
The side effect is causing my function to change
my program without encapsulating that change in the return value.
Side effects might seem harmless in a small program,
but as the program grows,
it can create problems.
Pure functions must be without side effects,
which makes our programs more reliable and edge case free.